Welcome to the TEB, also known as the Technical Evaluation Board. As an
evaluating member of the TEB, there are few things you need to know. Your role is
to evaluate all proposals fairly and evenly and then recommend the
technically superior proposal, which is accomplished by reviewing the written
technical part first then the oral presentations or the video technical
proposal. Of course, you won't be on your own. The TEB consists of these voting
members: The TEB chair, an Assistant Acquisition Project Manager, the FEDSIM
project manager, and other representatives from your agency. The TEB
may also include technical advisers to bring specialized knowledge to the
evaluation and observers who may observe the process but will not provide ratings.
Only the voting members - the TEB chair, Assistant APM, and client representatives
like you will evaluate proposals and assign ratings. Many government entities
use different approaches to evaluation. Some use a color grading scale, others
use a mathematical evaluation approach to reach an award decision. All
methodologies can be challenged in a protest. Over time, FEDSIM has fine tuned the
evaluation methodology to reduce risk and drive quality outcomes. That's why
FEDSIM uses an adjectival scheme for evaluating proposals. Adjectival ratings differentiate the
technical qualitative differences that can drive a best value award. This
approach adheres to the FAR and distinguishes best quality, lowest risk
offers from the others. To prepare for the TEB evaluation you should read and
understand the solicitation and read the Technical Evaluation Plan to familiarize
yourself with the desired proposal qualities, strengths, weaknesses, risks, and
deficiencies (also known as SWRDs), and the adjectival ratings. During the
TEB training, your APM will review this document in more detail.
The TEB's goal is to assign an adjectival rating to each proposal. These ratings
will help identify the superior proposal. To get there, you will first complete an individual
evaluation of the material and presentations, documenting feedback on
the overall proposal while also writing SWRD statements against each evaluation
factor. Then you will convene as a group to review the individual evaluation
statements and SWRDs to come to a consensus on them.
The TEB will assign adjectival ratings for each proposal factor and then
assign an overall proposal adjectival rating. Once this is repeated
for each proposal, the APM documents the findings in the TEB consensus report.
Some of these days can get rather long which is why FEDSIM strives to make
evaluations as fast and efficient as possible. To help us do that,
delegate other client duties so that you can focus on the evaluation.
The TEB chair will be in touch with you about the required TEB training you need
prior to the start of the Technical Evaluation.